# Methods

Java **methods** are blocks of reusable code that quickly perform a specific task, like a recipe or instructions! Because methods are reusable, we can use, or call, them multiple times, helping our code be more readable and condensed.

Remember the static methods we learned is arrays, such as `.sort()` and `.equals` ? Those are written by other developers.

```java
public class helloWorld {
	public static void isFreezing(int temp) {
		if (temp <= 32) {
			System.out.println("It's freezing!");
		} else {
			System.out.println("It's not that bad out here!");
		}
	}
	
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		isFreezing(32);
		isFreezing(50);
		isFreezing(-10);
	}

}
```

```java
public static int addNubmers(int a, int b) {
	int sum = a + b;
	return sum;
}
```

We can break down a few keywords:

- `public` is the access modifier, meaning it determines who can use this method. All of our methods int this chapter will be public
- `static` allows us to call the method without the need of an object
- `return` tells the program what to output when it computes 

## Naming and parameters

What about the `int addNumbers(int a, intb)` part ?

The `int` at the beginning of our method is our return type. That means that when the method performs the addition, it will return the sum in type `int`

- For any function you carte, you can replace `int` with any data type, arrays, **objects**

```java
35 // int a = 10, int b = 25
```

`addNumbers()` is the name of the function. This is what we will use later to `call` the method we just created, and use it in our main method.

```java
addNumbers(5, 5);
addNumbers(10, 7778);
```

`(int a, int b)` are the inputs the method needs to perform its task.

- `int a` and `int b` are the two numbers the method will add.
- **Parameters** go inside parentheses `()` after the method name.

```java
public static int subNumbers(int a, int b) {} // a and b are int parameters
public static boolean areEqual (double a, double b) {} // a and b are double parameters
public static int[] weather(int a, int b, int c) {} // a, b, and c are int parameters
```

## Static

```java
public class HelloWorld {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		// Some code here
	}
}
```

`static` methods are methods that belong to their class, in this case, the `main()` method belongs to the **Hello World** class.

You've also seen other static methods like `Arrays.sort()` from the last chapter

```java
int[] numbers = {5, 2, 8, 1};
Arrays.sort(numbers);  // Uses the static method Arrays.sort()
```

`Arrays` is a class written by other developers that we imported with `java.util.Arrays` so we can use the static methods within that class. Similarly, we will creat static methods that will only run in our `hello World` class.

## Method overloading

Method names should always start with a lowercase letter, and use camelCase, similar to how we write variable names 

Method names should usually describe the task we're trying to accomplish. However, sometimes we want to accomplish a tasks, but there are multiple ways we need to use the method.

We could have one instance where we need to find the sum of two integers, an instance where we need to find the sum of three integers, and an instance where we need to find where we need to find the sum of decimal numbers (doubles).

```java
public static int add(int a, int b) {...} // add (2, 2) Output: 4
public static int add(int e, int f, int g) {...} // add(2, 4, 6) Output: 12
public static double add(double a, double b) {...} // add(2.5, 2.5) Output: 5
```

This is calles **method overloading** We can use the same method name for multiple methods only if the parameter amount is different, or if a different data type is used!

```java
public static double ad(int a, int b) {...}
```

## Void

The `void` keyword is present, and you'll notice we do not have a return type. `void` lets use define our function to complete a task without having to return a value.

We've used void function to display output or complete a task in the background like the `isFreezing()` method and the `.sort()` method with arrays.

```java
int[] numbers = {23431, 2344, 77, 55, 8};
Arrays.sort(numbers);
```


## return

While `void` functions perform actions without  returning values, we have seen how methods with a return type provide a result that can be stored in variables, and can later be used in a program.

```java
// Method taht returns a boolean value
public static boolean isValidNumber(String phoneNum) {
	return phoneNum.length() == 10;
}
```

```java
String phone = "1234567890";

if (isValidNumber(phone)) {
	System.out.println(phone + " is a valid number!");
} else {
	System.out.println(phone + " is not valid.");
}
```

## Calling a Method

 ```java
 // Calling a method, saving it to a variable
 boolean isTheSame = Arrays.equals(playlistA, playlistB); // Boolean saved to a variable
 
 // Calling a method with no return type or "void"
 isThisNubmerEven(99);
 
 // Calling a method with no return type
 Arrays.sort(numbers);
 
 // Calling a method, saving it to an array
 int[] squareOf = squeres(nubmers);
 ```

This is calles **calling a method**. You can create a method that adds two numbers, and then "call" that method any time you want to perform addition, or any other set of instructions you crate a method for.


