# Varibales

In Java, variables are like your personal storage boxes that hold data.

Your boxes can be given names that hold and store a value (numbers, letters etc..)

```java
  int points = 22;
  System.out.println(points); // Output: 22
```

You can then reference the variable names to access the value stored inside. In our print statement, `points` is the variable name, and `22` is the value stored inside.

## Naming

A common naming convention is Java is `camelCase`, in which the first word is written is all lowercase letter, and the following words start with an uppercase letter

```java
  int groupOfStudents = 20;
  int numberOfStudents = 10;
```

Additional, variable names must follow a few rules:

- The are case-sensitive(`Age` and `age` are different vaiables).
- They cannot contain whitespaces or special characters like !, #, %, etc..
- They must begin with a letter; it can't start with a number

## Data Types

In our last exercise, we used th `int` data type, which means integer. An `int` is one of the `primitive` data types.

Here are the eight primitive types:

- Integer values: `byte`, `short`, `int` and `long`
- Floating point values: `float` and `double`
- Boolean values: `boolean`
- Characters: `char`

### Integer

An integer is a whole number with no deciamal points, including 0! This can include both negative and positive numbers.

```java
int age = 19;
int cookies = 0;
```

### Double

A double is a high-precision decimal number, meaning it can represent numbers with a large number of digits both before and after the decimal point;

```java
  double pi = 3.14;
  double megapixels = 34.678823

```

### Boolean

Booleans are a data type that stores a **true** or **false** value. In Java, a boolean is either `true` or `false`, all lowercase.

```java
  boolean favColorBLue = true;
  boolean subscribed = false;
```

### Char

Java has the character data type to store a sinble character value, which can only be stored in single quotes.

```java
  char theFirstLetter = 'a';
  char hashtag = '#';
```

### Strings

A string is a swquence of characters of text. Strings are technically what we call a reference type. They do not store actual data but rather a reference (memory address) to the data. Strings are held in double quotes. But don't worry, for now, we'll use it very similary to the rest of the data types we've learned about.

```java
  String wordleWord = "TAKER";
  String bandMusic = "Pink Floyd"
```
