# Loops

The most simple loop in Java is called the `while` loop

```java
  while (condition) {
    // runs code until false
    // Update the i iterator vairable
  }
```

## String Concatenation

We can also combine varibles and strings in our print statements using **string concatenation** This allows us to combine things in our print messages with the `+` plus sign.

We can use a `while` loop to show the squares of numbers

```java
  int i = 1;

  while (i <= 5) {
    System.out.println("The square of " + i + " is " + (i * i));
    i = i + 1;
  }
```

The `i` variable keeps tharck of the number of times we are iterating or going over lines of code. Our code loops until the `i` variable changes and sets our condition to false, at which point we exist the loop!

## for loops

Ahother type of loop is the `for` loop! It typically starts at 0, and the iterator variable increases (or decreases) until it meets a specific condition.

`for` loops are perfect when you know exactly how many times you want to repeat something.

- Limiting password attempts to 3 tries
- Counting up or down
- Generating multiples rows in a table for a web page.
- Repeating an animation frame a fixed number of times.

```java
  for (let i = initialValue; condition; updateIterator) {
    /// Code hero
  }
```

```java
  int num = 1;

  for (int i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
    System.out.println("This is iteration " + num);
    num++
  }
```

- `int i = 0`: We declare our iterator and make it start at 0
- `i < 3`: We test the `i` in the condition statement. If this is true, we run the code block. Otherwise, we exit the loop.
- `i++`: means that we are incrementing our iterator every time, similar to when we used `i = i + 1`

In the code block above, we start our iteration value at 0 and run the block. The iterator increases and will loop until `i` is no longer less that 3.

## break

As you can tell, loops have the potencial to run over and ever again, sometimes forever! This is called the **infinite loop**

We can use the Java keyword `break` to terminate a loop when specific criteria are met

Let's take a look at how this works:

```java
  for (int i = 1; i <= 5; i++) {
    System.out.println("i = " + i);
    if (i == 3) {
      break; // Exist the loop
    }
  }

  System.out.println("Loop ended.");
```
