# Python

Created by a developer named `Guido van Rossum` in the early 90s.

Python is designed to be easy to read, which makes it the perfect language for beginners

It's also super versatile and used in the following areas:

- Data analysis & visualization
- Artificial intelligence (AI)
- Magine learning (ML)
- Web development

## Hello World

In Python, the `print()` function is used to tell a computer to 'talk'

The message we want to display should be inside the parentheses and surrounded by quotes. They can be double quotes `"` or sigle quotes `'`, but the opening and cloding quote marks have to be the same.

```python
  print('👋 Howdy')
```

In the example above, we instructed our program to print a message.

## Line by line

Python is run one line at a time, from top to bottom

We can output multiple messages by using multiple `print()` functions.
For. example, if we want to print out two simple greetings:

```python
  print('🌻 Morning')
  print('🙋🏽 Evening')
```

## Comments

Comments are very important in progrmaming because they are used to document what our code does. They are also used to disable part of the program.

When the program is run, the comments are ignored

In Python, we can create a comment using the `#` hashtag symbol:

```python
  # Printing out a message
  print('Hi')
```

On the first line, we created a comment. As a result, everything to the right of the hashtag `#` is ignored. The program continues to the next line

Python only ignores anything after the `#` on a line. So when a comment is placed towards the end of a line like this:

```python
  print('Hi')
```

```python
  print('La Witsi Witsi Araña', 'subio', 'a su telaraña')
```

There is one `print()` function invocation, but it contains **three arguments**. All of them are string

The arguments are **separated by commas***.

## Keyword arguments

Python offers another mechanism for the passing of arguments, which can be helpful when you want to onvince the `print` function to change its behavios a bit.

The mechanism is called keyword arguments. The name stems from the fact that the meaning of these arguments is taken not from its location, but from the special word used to identify them.

The `print()` function has two keyword arguments that you can use for your purposes. The first is called `end`

```python
  print("My name is", "Python", end=" ")
  print("Monty Python.")
```

```bash
  My name is Python. Monty Python.
```

As you can see, the `end` keyword argument determines the characters the `print()` function sends to the ouput once it reachers the end of this positional arguments.

The default behavior reflects the situation where the `end` keyword arguments is **implicityly** used in the following way: `end="\n"`

We said previosly that the `print()` function separates its outputted arguments with spaces. This behavior can be changed, too

The **keyword argument** that can do this is named `sep`

```python
  print("My", "name", "is", "Monty", sep="-")
```

The `sep` argument delivers the following results:

```bash
  My-name-is-Monty-Python.
```

The `print()` function now uses a dash. instead of a space, to separate the outputted arguments.

Both keyword arguments may be **mixed in one invocation**

```python
  print("My", "name", "is", sep="_", end="*")
  print("Monty", "Python.", sep="*", end="*\n")
```

## Built-in Functions

The Python interpreter has a number of functions and types built into it that are always avaible.
link['https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html']
