# Loop

In programming, a *loop* is used to repeat a block of c ode until a specified condition issatisfied. It's another incredibly powerful tool that's used a ton!

People will often use the generic term "iterate" when referring to loops; iterate simply means "to repeat"

The first kind of loop that we are foing to learn is the `while` loop. You can think of the `while` loop like a traffic circle.

Each lap is one iteration! A car will iterate over and over again until it. can't do so anymore

```py
  print('BACNK OF CODEDEX')

  pin = int(input('Enter your PIN: '))

  while pin != 1234:
    pin = int(input('Incorrect PIN. Enter your PIN again: '))

    if pin == 1234:
      print('PIN accepted!')
```

## While loop

A `while` loop very simiar to an `if` statement. Just like an `if` statement, it executes the code if the condition is `TRUE`

However, the difference is that the `while` loop will continue to execute the code inside of it, over and over again, as long as the condition is `TRUE`

```py
  while condition: 
    # code inside
```

In other words, instead of executing once if a condition is true, it executes again and again while that condition is true

```py
  guess = 0

  while guess != 6:
    guess = int(input('Guess the number: '))

```

## range()

To loop throungh a set of code a specified number of times, we can use a `for` loop and the `range()`

The `range()` function returns a sequence of numbers. By default, the sequece starts at 0 and increments by 1 ending at a specified number

```py
 for i in range(6):
  print(i)
```

For number `i` inside `range(6)`, which is 0 throungh 5, print number `i`

```bash
  0
  1
  2
  3
  4
  5
```

## String Interpolation

Let's learn a new tool that's very similar to string concatenation, before continuing on to the instructions

**String interpolation** is aprocess of substituting values of variables into placeholders in a string.

For instance, if you have atemplate for saying hello to a person in an email like `'Hi { name }, nice to meet you!'`, you would like to replace the placeholder `{ name }` with an actual name. This is string interpolation.

The above program can be recreated using string interpolation using the `{}` sign:

```py
  for i in range(5):
    print(f'The squre of {i} is {i * i}')
```

Notice the `f` prefix before the quotes.

### Bottles of Beer

Create a program and use a `for` loop and a `range()` function to print out all the verses

```py
for i in range(99, 0, -1):
  print(f'{i} bottles of beer on the wall')
  print(f'{i} bottles of beer')
  print('Take one down, pass it around')
  print(f'{i-1} bottles of beer on the wall')

```

### Example

Create a **fizz_buzz** program that outputs number from 1 to 100

Here's the catch:

- For multiples of 3, print "Fizz" instead of the number
- For multiples of 5, print "Buzz" instead of the number
- Here's the tricky part: For multiples of 3 and 5, print "FizzBuzz"

```py

for i in range(100):
  if i % 5 == 0 and i % 3 == 0:
    print("FizzBuzz")
  elif i % 5 == 0:
    print("Buzz")
  elif i % 3 == 0:
    print("Fizz")
  else:
    print(i)

```
