# Functions 

"Don't Repeat Yourself" (DRY) is a particular in software development aimed at reducing repetition and writing good clean code. Functions play a big part.

A **function** is reusable block of code that performs a specific task. To execute this block of code, you just need to write the function's name, followed by a pair of parenthisis `(` `)

Whether the task is five or twenty lines of code, you can throw it in a function and use it later anywhere in your program. It takes a little more effort initially but will save you a lot of time in the long term.

## Define a Function

User-defined functions are functions we define ourselves to do a specific task, and it's a two-steps process:
`Define and Call`

To *define* a function, we need a function definition. A **functions definition** begins weith ethe `def` keyword, followed by the functions name, a set of parentheses, and a colon, in that order.

```py	
def name():
	# The code inside
```

- The `def` keyword.
- The function name, followed by a pair of parentheses `(` `)`
- The colon `:`

The code inside the function is called the body of the function. And just like `if` statements and `while` loops, the code inside a function must be indented.

***
```py
def say_hello():
	print('Howdy! 🤠')
	print('How are you?')
```

## Call a Function

To **call** a function, we use the function name followed by parentheses somewhere in the code:

```py
def say_hello():
	print('Howdy! 🤠')
	print('How are you?')Ï
	
say_hello()
```

This executes the `say_hello()` function once
We can also call a function numerous times.

## Parameters and Arguments

**Parameters** are just a fancy word for input. They are variables that a functions takes in. They go inside the parentheses in the function definition and are used inside the function.

```py
def happy_birthday(name):
	print('Happy birthday to you')
	print('Happy birthday to you')
	print('Happy birthday dear ' + name )
	print('Happy birthday to you')
```

What's the difference between a parameter and an argument. Why are there two words for what seems for what seems like the same thing

- The *parameter* is the variable listed inside the parenthesis in the function definition (when we define the function)
- The *argument* is the value sent to the function (when we call the function)

In the example above, the variable `name` is the parameter, and the value `Lillian` is the argument

## Return Values

We learned that functions can take in inputs, but did you know that functions can also have outputs? In fact, every Python function has an output

The `return` keyword is used to terminate a function and output a value:

```py
def function_name():
# The code inside	
return value
```

When we don't add it, Python will implicitly return the default value, `None`, as the return value.

```py
def add(x, y)
	answer = x + y
	return answer
```

So a `return` keywords is added, plus the variable we want to output

Now when we call the function, there will be an ouput that we can play with:

```py
total = add(4.99, 9.99)  # Total is 14.98
```

**Note:** When a `return` statement is reached, Python will stop the execution of the current function, sending a value out to where the function was called.

## Print vs Return

Now you might wonder, why are we returning values instead of printing them?

Well, `print()` functions can be anywhere in the program - inside or outside of a function, whereas `return` is the output of a funcion; you don't need to print out whatever you are returning.

As a rule of thumb:

- Use `return` in a function when you want to send value(s) from one point in the code to another
- Use `print()` in a function when you want to display some text to the user

## Scope

**Scope** determines where in the program a variable is visible and can be used.

Here are two types of scopes:

A variable created outside of a function is called a **global variable** and belongs to the **global scope**, meaning that they can be used by every function.

```py
answer = 0

def add(x, y):
	answer = x + y
	return answer
	
add(3, 4)

print(answer)
```

Notice that `answer` is not 7. It's still 0 because if we create a variable with the same name inside a function, it will be a local variable and can only be used inside the function. The global variable with the same name will remain global and with the original value.

### Example

In fintech, we often perform a **time series analysis** on stocks. This means that we need to analyze a stock, given its price over a certain time.

In this exercise, we will perform a simplified version of a time series analysis. The stock that we will be analyzing is the `$AMC` stock in January 2023.

here are the stock prices (in dollars) for each of these weekdays

```py
stock_prices = [34.68, 36.09, 34.94, 33.97, 34.68, 35.82, 43.41, 44.29, 44.65, 53.56, 49.85, 48.71, 48.71, 49.94, 48.53, 47.03, 46.59, 48.62, 44.21, 47.21]
```

The program that implements three functions:

- `price_at(x)` that finds the price on a given day `x`
- `max_price(a, b)` that finds the maximum price from day `a` to a day `b`
- `min_price(a, b)` that finds the minimum price from day `a` to day `b`

The parameters of the days will be in the range of 1 to 20

```py
stock_prices = [34.68, 36.09, 34.94, 33.97, 34.68, 35.82, 43.41, 44.29, 44.65, 53.56, 49.85, 48.71, 48.71, 49.94, 48.53, 47.03, 46.59, 48.62, 44.21, 47.21]

def price_at(x):
	if 0 <= x < len(stock_prices):
		return stock_prices[x]
	else:
		return "Índice fuera de rango"


# Precio máximo entre día a y b (incluye ambos)
def max_price(a, b):
	if 0 <= a <= b < len(stock_prices):
		return max(stock_prices[a:b+1])
	else:
		return "Rango inválido"

# Precio mínimo entre día a y b (incluye ambos)

def min_price(a, b):
	if 0 <= a <= b < len(stock_prices):
		return min(stock_prices[a:b+1])
	else:
		return "Rango inválido"

print(price_at(3)) # 33.97
print(max_price(0, 5)) # 36.09
print(min_price(10, 15)) # 47.03
```

## Lambda

Lambdas provide a quick way to define small functions. Functions are blocks of reusable code, allowing you to organize your program effectively. They take inputs, perform a task, and return a result. As a beginner, mastering them can open up new possibilities for concise and readable code.

## Function with no name

**Lambda functions** are concise functions defined without a name. They are often used for short-lived tasks where a full function definition might seem verbose or uneeded.

The syntax for lambda functions is as follows:

```py
lambda arguments: expression
```

First, we use the reserved `lambda` keyword to begin defining the function. Then, we can use one or more `arguments` (separated by commas), follwed by a `:` colon. On the other side of the colon is the `expression` that may use the `arguments` ro produce an output.

Here's an example of regular function that doubles a number:

```py
def double(x):
	return x * 2
```

And here's how you can write it as a lambda function:

```py
double = lambda x: x * 2

print(double(4))
# Output: 8
```

Although lambda function are anonymous, they can be assigned to named variabled and the used later with the variable name.

## Use Cases

Lambdas are particularly useful in situations where a small, one-time use function is needed.

When using functions like `map()` and `filter()` to perform operations on collections like lists, they require a function as one of their parameters

This is where lambda functions come into play:

```py
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

tripled_numbers = list(map(lambda x: x * 3, numbers))

odd_numbers = list(filter(lambda x: x % 2 == 1, numbers))

print(tripled_numbers) # Output: [3, 6, 9, 12, 15]
print(odd_numbers) # Output: [1, 3, 5]
```

And just like that, we were able to include a single-line lambda function in each example above. `lambda x: x * 2` and also `lambda x: x % 2 == 1` really did a lot or work

### Practical Examples

Let's explore a real-world scenario. Suppose you have a list of names, and you only want to see names that don't start with the letter 'A'. You can use `filter` to remove names that start with `A`

```py
names = ['Anthony', 'Benedict', 'Colin', 'Daphne', 'Eloise']

filtered_names = list(filter(lambda name: name[0].upper() != 'A', names))

print(filtered_names) # Output: ['Benedict', 'Colin', 'Daphne', 'Eloise']
```

In this example, the lambda function takes in a `name` argument and returns `True` if the first character is not `A` and `False` otherwise

## Using Multiple Arguments

Lambda can take multiple arguments as well. Here's an example that adds two strings to make a **compound word**

```py
compound_word = lambda str1, str2: str1 + str2

word = compound_word('fire', 'flye')

print(f'The compound word is: {word}`)
```

We defined a lambda that forms a compound word with tow parameters `str1` and `str2`, saved it to a `compound_word` variable. If we the `comppund_word()` and five it the arguments `fire` and `fly` the word should be `firefly`

