We can create our own data types and use them to model everyday objets with unique characteristics and behaviors

Classes serve as a template for the objects created using that class. Simply put, a class is like a blueprint.

In our example: In our example, 📜 (class) ➡️ 👩🏼‍💻👨🏻‍💻👩🏽‍💻👩‍💻🧑🏾‍💻 (objects).

Here's the basic syntax for creating a class in Python

```python
class Name:
	# Attributes inside
```

The `class` keyword followed by class name creates the class. By convention, the class name is capitalized.

For example, to make a `Student` class, we can write:

```python
class Student:
	name = ''
	year = 0
	gpa = 0.0
	enrolled = False
```

The `Student` class has four attributes:

- `.name` of the type `str` (text string)
- `.year` of the type `int` (integer number)
- `.gpa` of the type `float` (decimal number)
- `.enrolled` of the type `bool` (boolean value)


## Objects

An **objects** is an "instance" of a class. A class is simply a template for creating objects, which are individual copies of the class with actual values.

The syntax for creating an object looks like this:

```python
wednesday = Student()
```

Now that we have created an object of `Student` and saved it to `wednesday`, we can acces and edit the class attributes by using the dot syntax, `.attribute` 

```python
wednesday.student_id = 123
wednesday.name = 'Wednesday Addams'
wednesday.year = 11
wednesday.gpa = 4.0
wednesday.enrolled = True
```

You can check all the attributes available on the `wednesday` object with the build-in `vars()` function, as follows:

```python
print(vars(wednesday))

# Output: {'student_id': 1113, 'name': 'Wednesday Addams', 'year': 11, 'gpa': 4.0, 'enrolled': True}
```


## The  ___init___() Method

Recall how we defined our `Student`  class to model students:

```python
class Student:
	name = ''
	year = 0
	gpa = 0.0
	enrolled = False

daniel = Student()
```

However, it feels quite clunky because we need to give each attribute in the class a default or *dummy* value that doesn't actually get passed on to the objects we create.

```python
print(vars(daniel))
```

The `daniel` object never received values from the `Student` class in the first place! We'd have to set them like so manually:

```python
daniel.name = 'Daniel Li'
daniel.year = 10
daniel.gpa = 3.0
daniel.enrolled = True
```

Assigning a value to each attribute on a separate line is tedious; there must be an easier way, we can use the `__init__()` method

Using `__init__()` in our class definition lets us construct objects with unique attributes. When we create a new `Student()` object, we can pass in values for each attribute to **initialize** the new object, all in a single line!

So if we reformat our `Student` class with `__init__()`:

```python
class Student:
	def __init__(self, name, year, gpa, enrolled):
		self.name = name
		self.year = year
		self.gpa = gpa
		self.enrolled = enrolled

danil = Student('Daniel Li', 10, 3.0, True)
```

Note that `__init__()` also uses a separate parameter called `self`. This represents the object we'll create out of `Student()`. We need to include `self` whenever we want to use `__init__()` . It's always the first parameter.

With `self`, we can move each of the previous assignments, like `danile.name = 'Daniel Li'`, into the method and slightly rewrite it, like `self.name = name` 

```python
ladybird = Student('Christine McPherson', 12, 3.0, True)
kyle = Student('Kyle Scheible', 12, 3.4, True)

	print(vars(ladybird)) 
	print(vars(kyle))
```

The `__init__` might be more effort upfront, but it saves us so much time if we create hundreds os thousands of the `Student` objects

## Instance Methods

Functions that are defined in a class a re called **methods**.

These are built-in methods. Let's create our own methods within a class!

Consider our `Student` class:

```python
class Student:
	def __init__(self, name, year, enrolled, gpa):
		self.name = name
		self.year = year
		self.enrolled = enrolled
		self.gpa = gpa
```

To implement a method, we need to define one inside the class. If we want to create a method called `.display_info()`, we would define it like so:

```python
class Student:
	def __init__(self, name, year, enrolled, gpa):
		self.name = name
		self.year = year
		self.enrolled = enrolled
		self.gpa = gpa
		
	def display_info(self):
		print('The student ' + self.name + '\'s GPA is ' + str(self.gpa) + '!')

```

But remember, like a function, defining a method doesn't automatically run the code inside the method's body. We still need to call the method

```python
mitsuha = Student('宮水三葉', 11, False, 4.0)
taki = Student('立花瀧', 11, True, 3.8)

mitsuha.display_info()
taki.display_info()

# Output:
# The student 宮水三葉's GPA is 4.0!
# The student 立花瀧's GPA is 3.8!
```


**Note** Take a look at `def display_info(self)`. Like what we learned about with the `__init__()` method, the first argument in the methods we make is always `self` . Every method has to have this `self` argument. The object attached to the method call is what `self` refers to.

In our example, we created two objects, `mitsuha` and `taki`

- When we called the `mitsuch.display_info()` method, the `self` parameter refers to the `mitsuha` object.
- In the case of `taki.display_info()` , `self` refers to the `taki` object.

Also, you can define as many methods as you'd like

```python
class Student:
	def __init__(self, name, year, enrolled, gpa):
		self.name = name
		self.year = year
		self.enrolled = enrolled
		self.gpa = gpa
		
	def display_into(self):
		print('The student ' + self.name + '\'s is ' + str(self.gpa) + '!'
	
	def graduation(self):
		if self.enrolled and self.gpa > 2.5 and self.year == 12:
			print(self.name + ' will be able to graduate this year!')

```


### Example

Lets define a `Pokemon` class with the following attributes:

- `entry` (integer)
- `name` (name)
- `types` (list of strings)
- `description` (string)
- `is_caught` (boolean)

Next, create an instance method called `.speak()` that prints a string of the sound a Pokemon makes. A Pokemon usually just says their names, so make the `.speak()` simply print out their name twice

Then, create another instance method called `.display_details()` that print the attributes of a `Pokemon` object like the following:

```python
Entry Number: 25
Name: Pikachu
Type: Electric
Description: It has small electric sacs on both its cheeks. If threatened, it looses electric charges from the sacs.
Pikachu has already been caught!
```

Lastly, create three `Pokemon` class objects and use the `.speak()` or `.display_details()` instance methods for each one.
