# Modules

A **module** is any file with a *.py* extension. But more ideally, a module contains statements, functions, and class definitions that revolve around a similar purpose.

By default, Python comes with **over 200 modules** that we can use.

Here are some examples:

- `random` module to generate a random number
- `math` module to calculate the square root
- `datetime` module to work with dates and times

Modules are magical because they offer us tools and method to solve a problem that we'd otherwise have to write ourselves

## The from keyword

What if we want to import a piece of a module instead of the whole thing? We can use the `from` keyword!

```python
from module_name import objects
```

We can use the `from` keyword to import  one o more objects from  a module, such as build-in classes, methods, or variables

The next example uses the `from` keyword to import `random` module's `.sample()` method that returns a list of values randomly picked from another list:

```python
from random import sample

famous_houses = ['🐺 Stark', '🐉 Targaryen', '🦌 Baratheon', '🦑 Greyjoy', '🦁 Lannister']

example = sample(famous_houses, 2)

print(f'Example: {example}')
```

Since the `.sample` method was directly imported, we can just write `sample()` instead of the usual `random.sample()`

By the way, more that on e method, variable, or class con be imported from a module on a single line.
If we want ti import both the `.choice` and `.sample()` methods:

```python
from random import choice, sample
```

## The as keyword

Some module names are long, and it can be unpleasant to write the word repeteadly. This is where aliasing can be helpful

We can nickname a module by using the `as` keyword. This is calles **aliasing**

```python
import random as rd
```

Here, we are renaming the `random` module with a shorthand, `rd` 
From this point of the program, the `random` module will be known as `rd`

The `from` and `as` keywords can also be combined:

```python
from random import sample as samp

example = samp(['Stark', 'Targaryen', 'Baratheon', 'Greyjoy', 'Lannister'], 2)

print('Example: ' + example[0] + ' ' + example[1])
```

## Datetime Module

The `datetime` module specializes in dates and times. Just like `random`, it comes with Python by default and can simply be imported.

In addition to functions, modules may contain class object definitions with their own defined methods and properties.

The `datetime` module has a `date` object that accepts the following properties:

- `.year`: An integer between 1 and 9999.
- `.month`: An integer between 1 and 12.
- `.day` : An integer between 1 and the number of days in a given month

The syntax for a `date` is `datetiem.date(year, month, day)` like so:

```python
import datetime
release_date = datetime.date(1991, 2, 20)
print(release_date)
```

## Packages

Modules are the **.py** files that contain definitions for functions, classes, and variables. Packages are the folders that contain the modules.

A collection of related modules with a similar purpose is a **package**

Python can tell a regular folder from a package if it has an **__init__.py** file

Python can tell large and specialized packages are called "libraries"



