# Tuples

Tuples are ordered collections that cannot be changed after creation.

This means that they are **immutable**, which means their values cannot change. They're great for data that should stay the same, like coordinates or color values.

We can replace one tuple with another and have duplicates within a tuple

List and tuples have a few things in common:

- They can store multiple items in a single variable
- Their values are separated by commas

Tuples are created using `(` `)` parentheses.

```py
person = ('Kat', 24)
navy_blue = (0, 0, 128)
```

They are also defined without parentheses and their items can be a mix of any data type. They can have one or more items.

```py
# valid tuple
t1 = ('h1',)

# valid tuple
t2 = 'h1',

# not a tuple
t3 = ('hello')
```

If there is only one item, make suer there sure there is a comma `,` beside it

The tuples are an ordered collection, we can access tuple items the same way we do with lists using the index

### Using Tuples

Tupes are also unpackable which allows us to easily turn them into vaiables. Most commonly, tupes are used as return values allowing us to easily work with large data sets.

```py
full_name = ('Ada', 'Will')

first_name = full_name[0]

print(first_name) # Output: Ada
```

Tuples can also be combined:

```py
t1 = 'a',
t2 = 'b',
t3 = t1 + t2

print(t3) #Output: ('a', 'b')
```


# Dictionaries

**Dictionaries** are ordered collections that store and access data using `key` : `value` pairs

Python dictionaries use curly braces `{` `}` with comma-separated `key` : `value` pairs

```py
dictionary = {
	key1: value1
	key2: value2
	key3: value3
}
```

With lists and tuples, we access their items by index. But with dictionaries, we access their items by key

```
laptop = {
	'brand': 'Apple', 
	'model': 'Macbook Pro', 
	'size': 14, 
	'year': 2023
}
```

Each key in a dictionary must be unique and associated with a specific value. This paring allows for efficient retrieval of data. Keys must also be immutable, such as a string

To access the value associated with a specific key in a dictionary, we use `[` `]` brackets with the key inside.

```py
print(laptop['modal'])
```

### Dictionary Methods

Dictionaries come equipped with various methods to streamline common tasks.

- `.keys` returns just the keys from a dictonay
- `.values()` returns just the values.
- `.items()` returns a list of the key-value pairs as tuples


## Sets

**Sets** are collections of unique items with no duplicates.

- They are an unordered collection of distinct elements
- Each item in a set must be unique

Unlike lists or tuples, sets do no have an inherent order, making them perfect for scenarios where the sequence of the elements is not important.

Sets are useful when dealing with unique elements and performing tasks such as:

- Working with a database of user profiles, each with a unique ID
- Looking up only information with a unique tag attached to it.
- Searching for something and filtering out the results by category.

This makes sets great for finding unique items or eliminating duplicates.

### Creating Sets

Let's start by creating sets. You can define a set using curly braces `{` `}` or the `set()` constructor. Each set item is separated by a comma:

```py
set_example = {val1, val2, val3}
```

The items in sets are in no particular order. This makes them handy for times when the order of items, in no certain order

**Note**: Dictionaries and sets can be made with curly braces set do no use key-values pairs

### Using Sets

Sets support various methods that allows us to combine sets, find common items, or filtering out items. This makes sets powerful for data manipulation.

- `.union()` : Combines two or more sets and returns a new set.
- `.intersection()`: Returns a set of items common to tow or more sets.
- `.difference()` : Returns a set of items found only in the calling set

### Methods

There are more set methods for common operations, like adding and removing elements:

```py
my_set = {1, 2, 3}

my_set.add(4)
print(my_set) # Output: {1, 2, 3, 4}

my_set.remove(2)
print(my_set) # Output: {1, 3, 4}
```

The `.add()` method adds one new item to a set. If that item already exists, nothing happends.
The `.remove()` method removes an item from a set if it exists.

#### Exercise

```py
my_favorite = {'🍌', '🍓', '🍒'}

friend_favorite = {'🫐', '🍇', '🍓'}

union_results = my_favorite.union(friend_favorite)
intersection_result = my_favorite.intersection(friend_favorite)
difference_result = my_favorite.difference(friend_favorite)

print('my', my_favorite)
print('frind', friend_favorite, end="\n")
print('\n')
print('Union: ', union_results)
print('Intersection: ', intersection_result, end="\n")
print('Difference: ', difference_result)
```
