*****
# Functional Programming

Functional programming shows us that structuring code with functions offers a different approach when problem solving.

## Pure Functions

A **pure function** is a function whose output derives solely from its input values, without side effects. They always return the same result, making them reliable and restable.

Global variables are defined outside of a function, making them easy to find and change values. Pure functions do not use or refrence global variables. You can always count on pure function to act the same.

Here is an example of an *impure* function vs a pure function:

```python
def impure_squared(number):
	result = number ** 2
	print('The square of', number, 'is', result)
	return result
	
def pure_squred(number):
	return number ** 2
```

Pay attention to the syntax:

- The **pure** function only return the squared value of `number`
- The impure function prints something to the terminal (the side effect)

## Higher Order Functions

In functional programming, **higher-order functions** can take other functions as arguments or return functions as results. Higher-order functions are versatile and efficent. They enable us to create powerful and reusable Python code

### Example

Consider a scenario where you hace a list of number, and you want to perfomr the same operation on each number. Don't fret about the "what ifs" and trust the process. Higher-order functions are here to help!

```python
# Define the Higher-order function
def apply_operation(operation, numbers):
	result = []
	for num in numbers:
		result.append(operation(num))
	return result
	
# Example opration
def double(x):
	return x * 2
	
# List of numbers
numbers_list = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

# Using the higher-order function
double_numbers = apply_operation(double, number_lists)

# Displaying the outcomes
print('Original Numbers:', numbers_lists)
print('Doubled Numbers:', doubled_numbers)
```

This will return:

```python
Original Numbers: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
Doubled Numbers: [2, 4, 6, 8, 10]
```

- `apply_operation()` is our higher-order function
- A function takes another function `double()` as an argument and applies it to each item in `number_list`
- The result is a fast and customizable way to transform the numbers based on the chosen operation.


## Transformation

In Python, we can transform data using three powerful functions: `map()`, `filter()` and `reduce()`. These functions allow us to manipulate, select, and aggregate data efficiently

## map()

Let's look at the `map()` function first

```python
map(function, data)
```

`map()` applies the given `function` to each element in the `data` and returns a new list, It's perfect for when you need to perform the same operation on every item in a list, tuple, or data set.

```python
def divide_by_2(x):
	return x / 2
	
halved_numbers = map(divide_by_2, [1, 2, 3, 4, 5])

print(list(halved_numbers))
# Output: [0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5]
```


**Note** In order to get the actual list, we need to use the `list()` function. This also goes for the `filter()` function, 


## Filter()

```python
filter(function, data)
```

Here, we select elements from the `data` that satisfy the given condition specified by the `function` and return a new list. It helpes extract items from a dataset based on the criteria you define. The input function in `filter()` must return a boolean

Say we want to extract only even numbers from a list:

```python
def filter_even(x):
	return x % 2 == 0
	
even_numbes = filter(filter_even, [1, 2, 3, 4, 5])

print(list(even_numbers)) # Output: [2, 4]
```

In this example, the function will go through the list of number and if `x % 2 == 0` the function `filter_even` is true it will print the number

## reduce()

```python
from functools import reduce
reduce(function, ddata, initial)
```

**Note:** Unlike the previous two functions, we must import `reduce()` from the `functools` module.

``reduce()`` takes a collection of iterable `data` and combines its elements into a single value via a `function`. An optional `initial` value con be used, as well

This function is ideal for tasks like summing up a list of numbers

```python
from functools import reduce

def multiply(x, y):
	return x * y
	
product = reduce(multiply, [1, 2, 3, 4, 5])

print(product) # Output: 120
```

After importing `reduce()` from `functools`. We successively multiply each number in the list with a `multiply()` function we defined separately. This results in a final, cumulative `product` of 120

### Example

```python
from functools import reduce

# List of songs with their durations (in minutes)

playlist = [
	('What Was I Made For?', 3.42),
	('Just Like That', 5.05),
	('Song 3', 6.55),
	('Leave The Door Open', 4.02),
	("I Can't Breath", 4.47),
	('Bad Guy', 3.14)
] 

# filter()
def longer_than_five_minutes(song):
	return song[1] > 5.00

# map()
def minutes_to_seconds(song):
	return (song[0], song[1] * 60)


# reduce()
def add_durations(total, song):
	return total + song[1]

  

filtered = filter(longer_than_five_minutes, playlist)
converted = map(minutes_to_seconds, filtered)

# convertir a lista para verla y reutilizarla
converted_list = list(converted)

total_playtime = reduce(add_durations, converted_list, 0)

print(converted_list)
print(total_playtime)
```


##  List Comprehensions

If loops make you dizzy, let me intruduce the art of list comprehension. Imagine transforming complex loops into elegant one-liners, making your code more readable and efficient.

**List comprehensions** can transform data, filter elements, and even create nested lists. In functional programming, they let us transform list ata concisely and expressively.

### Sytax

Here is how we write list comprehensions:

```python
[expression for item in datese if condition]
```

Let's break down each piece, form left to right

1. The `expression` is applied to each `item`
2. A `for..in` statement loops through each `item`
3. An optional `if condition` can filter out items

The `dataset` can be something iterable like a list o tuple. List comprehensions do not change the original list.

**Note:** A list comprehensions works with `for` loops but no `while` loops

```python
# Original approach using a loop
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
squares = []

for num in numbers:
	squares.append(num ** 2)

# Using a list comprehensions to square each number
squared_numbers = [num ** 2 for num in numbers]

# Displaying the outcomes:
print('Original Numbers:', numbers)
print("Squared Numbers:', squared_numbers)
```

- The expression `num ** 2`, calculates the square of each number
- The item: `num` represents each number in the `numbers` list
- The data set: `numbers` is the original list of numbers

We used a list comprehension to create a new list containing the squares of each number in the original list. It's a concise and elegant way to achieve the same result an using a loop, but with less code.


