# Variables

In programming, `variables` are used fom storinig data values. Each variable has a name and holds a value.

The variable name can consist of letters, numbers, and the `_` underscore.

```py
  name = 'Jessica Jones'
  user_id = 234523389923
  progress = 0.34
  xp = 23
  verified = True
```

The `=` equal sign means assignment:

- We're assining the string value `Jessica Jones` to the variable `name`
- We're assining the number value `234523389923` to the variable `user_id`
- We're assining the number value `0.34` to the variable `progress`
- We're assining the number value `60` to the variable `xp`
- We're assining the true value `True` to the variable `verified`

We can also change the value of a variable or print it out:

```py
  xp = 70
  xp = 80

  print(xp) # Output: 80
```

Here, we are assigning the number value `70` to the variable `xp`. Then, we are reassingning the number value `80` to the same variable. And printing it out

## Data Types

### Intger

An integer, or `int`, is a whole number. It has no decimal point and contains the number 0, positive and negative counting numbers. If we were counting the number of people on the bus or the number of jellybeans in a jar, we would use an integer.

Note *Pyton 3.6 has introduced the underscore in numeric literals, allowing an `underscore` to be palced between digits and after base specifiers to improve readability. This feature is no avaibles in older version of Python.

How do you encode negative numbers in Pyton? As normally done, adding a minus sign. You can write: _-11111_, or -11_111_111

Postive numbers do not require a preceding positive sign, nut it is permitted, if desired. The following lines describe the same number: _+11111_ and _11111_

```py
  year = 2023
  age = 32
```

### Float

A floating-point number, or a `float`, is a decimal number. It can be used to represent fractions or precise measurements if we were measuring the length and width of the couch, calculation the test scrore percentage, or storing a baseball player's batting average, we would use a `float` instead of an `int`

On the other hand, not only the dot makes a number float. You can use the letter `e`

Whe you want to use numbers that are very small or very large, you can implement scientific notation.

The speed of light, expressed in meters per second.
Written directly it would look like this: 300000000

To avoid writing so many zeros, `textbooks` use the short form, which you've proabbly seen: `3 x 108`

The same effect can be achieved is a similar way `3E8`

The letter `E` (you can also use the lowercase letter `e` - it comes from the word exponent) which means times ten to the nth power.

#### Note

The exponent (thevalue after the `E`) must be an integer value;
The base (the value before the `E`) can be an integer or float value

```py
  pi = 3.14159
  meal_cost = 12.99
```

### Coding Floats

Let's now see how to store numbers tahta are very small (in the sense that they are very close to zero)

A physics constant called Planck's Constant (denoted as h), according totextbooks, has a value of: `6.62607 x 10-34`

```py
  6.62607E-34
```

Just because one of the possible ways of encoding a float value has been chosen does not mean that Python will present it in the same way

```py
  print(0.0000000000000000000001)
```

this is the result:

```bash
1e-22
```

### String

A string, or `str`, is used for storing text. String are wrapped in double quotes `"` or single quotes `'`

```py
  message = "good nite"
  username = '@snoopdog'
```

When we did printing in the first chapter, we printed a string data type

### Boolean

A Boolean date type, or `bool`, stores a value that can only be either true o false. In Python, it's capitalized `True` or `False`.

The name comes from George Boole (1815-1864), the author of The Laws of Thought, chich defines Boolean Algebra - a part of algebra that makes use of two values: True and False, denoted as 1 and 0.

```py
  late_to_class = False
  cranky = True
```

### Octal and hexadecimal numbers

There are two additional conventions in Python that are not known in the world of mathematics. The first allows us to use a number in its octal representation.

If an integer is preceded by a code 0o (zero-o), the number will be treated as an octal value. This means that the number must contain digits in the reange `[0...7]` only

`0o123` is an octal number with a (decimal) value equal to 83.

The `print()` function performs the conversion automatically

The second converntion allows us to use hexadecimal nubmers. These nubmers must be preceded by the prefix `0x` or `0X` (zero-x)

`0x123` is a hexadecimal number with a (decimal) value equal to 291. The `print()` function can handle these values as well.

## Extra

There is a special literal that is more commonly used in Python: the `None` literal. This literal is called a `NoneType` object, and it can be used to represent the absence of a value. We will discuss this in more detail soon.

