******
# Decorators & Generators

Python's decorators and generators are powerful, features that enhance code readability, maintainability, and performance. They empower developers to write efficient and maintainable programs. Decorators allow you to modify or extend the behavior of functions, while generators provide and efficient way to work with sequences of data.

## Understanding Decorators

**Decorators** are functions that affect the behavior of other functions. They allow us to wrap a function with another, adding functionality before or after the original function's execution without modifying their code directly.

### Example

Let's explore a decorator example.

```python
# Define the decorator function
def my_decorator(func):
	def wrapper():
		print('Before function execution')
		func()
		print('After function execution')
	return wrapper
```

We define a `my_decorator()` function that then takes another function `func()` as its argument.
Inside `my_decorator()`, we define an inner `wrapper()` function that adds behavior before and after calling the orginal function (`func()`).

```python
# Apply the decorator to a function
@my_decorator
def say_hello():
	print('Hello, decorators!')

# Call the decorated function
say_hello()
```

The `@my_decorator` syntax refers to the function we defined earlier. It is applied to the `say_hello()` function, which means that it acts as the `wrapper()` function.

When `say_hello()` is called, it actually invokes `wrapper`, which in turn calls the original say_hello function and executes additional code before and after its execution. We use a decorator to enhance the behavior of the original function without modifying it directly.

```python
# Define a decorator function
def my_decorator(func):
	def wrapper():
		print('Before function execution')
		func()
		print('After function execution')
	return wrapper
	
# Apply the decorator to a function

@my_decorator
def say_hello():
	print('Hello, decorators!')
	
say_hello()
```

## Exploring Generators

**Generators** are special functions that can puse and resume their execution, allowing you to generate a sequence of values dynamically. This makes them ideal for efficient iteration over large sequences of data without storing them in memory all at once.

### Example

Generator function are defined with the `def` keyword like a regular function, but instead of using `return` statements, it uses `yield` statements to produce a seris of values.

Let's start by defining a generator function with a descriptive name (`squate_generator()`) that takes or more parameters (`limit` in this case) to control its behavior

Inside the generator function, use a loop (or any other logic) to compute each value. Instead of using `return`, use `yield` to generate the current value of interest (`num ** 2` in this case) back to the caller.

Now, let's use the generator `square_generator()` to iterate over the squares of numbers up to a specified limit 

```py
# use the gerator to iterate over squares
for square in square_generator(5):
	print(square)
```

The for loop iterates over the values yielded by square_generator(5)

For each iteration, the nest square value (1, 4, 9, 16, 25...) is generated and printed within the loop. The final code should look something like this:

```python
# Define a generator function
def square_generator(limit):
	num = 1
	while num <= limit:
		yield num ** 2
		num += 1
		
for square in square_generator(5):
	print(square)
```

### Conclusion

Decorators enable you to modify function behavior dynamically, while generators provide a memory-efficient way to work with large datasets or sequences of data. By mastering decorators and generators, you'll have more control and flexibility in your Python programming.

