Building oof our experience with testing, let's learn how to write basic unit test

**Unit testing** involves taking smaller pieces of a large program and checking that the code behaves as expected under various scenarios. A unit of code can be as simple as a small function or as complex as a large class.

## unittest framework

The `unittest` framework is a built-in module. It helps developers validate the behavior of their code, piece by piece. By isolating and testign each unit independently, we can verify their functionality and behavior.

A unittest can be as simple as testing as testing that valuesare the same. We use `.assertEqual` in unittest to ensure two elements are equal to each other

```py
assertEqual(a, b)

## a == b
```

To use the `unittest` framework in a new Python file, we must first import it:

```py
import unittest
```

### Example

```py
import unittest

def add(a, b):
  return a + b

class TestAddition(unittest.TestCase):
  # Define the first unit test
  def test_add(self):
    result = add(3, 4)

    # Define the expected result
    expected_result = 7
    self.assertEqual(result, expected_result)

if __name__ == '__main__':
  unittest.main()
```

## Assertions

Python's `unittest` framework uses a special `TestCase` class to organize and execute individual test methods.
Each test method represents a specific scenario or behavior (or unit) that we want to test in our code.

We start by creating a test case class `TestAddFunction` that inherits form `unittest.TestCase`
```py
import unittest

# Function to test: add two numbers
def add(a, b):
	return a + b
	
# Test case class for testing the add function
class TestAddition(unittest.TestCase)
	# Test methods
```

When you create a test class that inherits from `unittest.TestCase`, each test method becomes and individual test case. Before running a test method, `unittest` initializes a new instance of the `TestCase` class.

Test methods within a `TestCase` class are prefixed with `test_` and are automatically discoverd and executed by the `unittest` framework

During initialization:
- `unittest` prepares the test environment for the upcoming test method
-  Any attributes defines within the `TestCase` class are initialized

## Assert Methods

Any `TestCase` instance comes with some helpful methods for testing:

- `self.assertEqual`: Checks if two values are equal
- `self.assertTrue()` and `self.assertFalse()`: Verifies boolean conditions
- `self.assertInt()` and `self.assertNotIn()`: Check for membership in a collection

The `self` refers to the actual `TestCase` instance.

```py
import unittest

class MyTestCase(unittest.TestCase):
	def test_addition(self):
		result = 2 + 3
		self.assertEqual(result, 5) # Verify that 2 + 3 equal 5
		
	def test_string_length(self):
		text = 'Hello, World!'
		self.assertEqual(len(text), 13) # Verify string length
		
	def test_text_contains_word(self):
		text = 'Hello, World!'
		self.assertTrue('Hello' in text) # Verify that 'Hello' is in the text
		self.assertIn('World', text) # Verify that 'World' is in the text
		
if __name__ == '__main__':
	unittest.maiin()		
```

- `MyTestCase` inherits form the `TestCase` class and has two test methods (`test_additions` and `test_string_length`)
- Each test method assertion methods (`self.assertEqual`) to check specific conditions and ensure that our code behaves correctly

The `if`-statement at the bottom checks if the test file is being run. If so, `unittest` uses the `
.main()` method and executes the test methods within `MyTestCase`

### Example

```py
import unittest

def reverse_string(s):
	return s[::-1]

def capitalize_string(s):
	return s.capitalize()

def is_capitalized(s):
	return s[0].isupper()


class TestStringUtils(unittest.TestCase):
	def test_reverse_string(self):
		self.assertEqual(reverse_string("frank"), "knarf")
		self.assertEqual(reverse_string("taco"), "ocat")

  
	def test_capitalize_string(self):
		self.assertEqual(capitalize_string("frank"), "Frank")
		self.assertEqual(capitalize_string("pizza"), "Pizza")


	def test_is_capitalized(self):
		self.assertTrue(is_capitalized("Frank"))
		self.assertTrue(is_capitalized("Pizza"))

  
  

if __name__ == '__main__':
	unittest.main()
```

## Edge Cases

As you know, unit testing involves testing individual units of code for expected outcomes. 

Edgecase refers to and unexpected outcome in software development. Although edgecases are unexpeted we can create `test methods` to tackle edgecases in our code.

We'll define test methods within a test class that represents a specific scenario or behavori to validate, as we have been doing with assertion 

```py
def test_word_in_text(self):
	text = 'Hello, World!'
	self.assertIn('World', text)
```

In the code above, we are testing if `'World'` is part of the text. But what happens if the `text` variable is an empty string? Or what if it's no a string at all?

As you wirte more unit test, you may start to anticipate edge cases such as these.

## .assertRaises()

The `.assertRaises()` method is great for ensuring that if an edge case exists, the proper error is raised.

For example, in testing a function that should only accepts string inputs, you can use `.assertRaises()` to verify that passing a non-string value raises a `TypeError`

```py
# Passing a non-string will raise a TypeError
with self.asertRaises(TypeError):
	self.assertIn('World', 123)
```

The `.assertRaises()` method works as a code block started by the `with` keyword. Inside the block, we can write test that might raise an erro, such as a `TypeErro`. In this example, the code trying to check if the string `World` is inside 123. Sice 123 is a number, no a string. Python will raise a TypeError.

```py
import unittest
import math

  
def get_sqrt(n):
	return math.sqrt(n)

def divide(a, b):
	return a / b


class TestUnexpected(unittest.TestCase):
	def test_squrt(self):
		self.assertEqual(get_sqrt(144), 12)

  
def test_sqrt_negative(self):
	with self.assertRaises(ValueError):
		get_sqrt(-4)

def test_divide(self):
	self.assertEqual(divide(144, 12), 12)


def test_divide_zero(self):
	with self.assertRaises(ZeroDivisionError):
	divide(10, 0)

if __name__ == '__main__':
	unittest.main()
```

## Testing Object-Orientd Code

We want to makes sure that our class objects and their methods work correctly under different conditions. This part of unit testing is unique as it involves verifying the behavior of classes and their interactions, rather than testing individual functions or preocedures.

## setUp()

The `setUp()` method takes places before each test method is run. This ensures that each test method start with a consistent state.

```py
class TestPerson(unittest.TestCase):
	def setUp(self):
		self.person = Person(name='Eeddie', age=23)
```

The `setup()` method initializes a `Person` object (`self.person`) before each test method is executed

## tearDown()

conversely, the `rearDown()` method happens after each test is run. It cleans up any resources leftover after testing. This could include:

- Closing a file object with `.close()`
- Deleting a class object from the global score via `del`

This method ensures that any changes made during testing are properly reverted and the environment is left in a clean state for the next and can be run independently and consistently


### Example

```py
import unittest

class Calculator:
	def add(self, a, b):
		return a + b
		
	def subtract(self, a, b):
		return a - b

class TestCalculator(unittest.TestCase):
	
	# Setup method: New Calculator instance before each test
	def setUp(self):
		self.calculator = Calculator()
		
	# Reardown method: Clean up resources after each test
	
	def tearDown(self):
		self.calculator = None
		
	def test_addition(self):
		self.assertEqual(self.calculator.add(3, 5), 8)
		
	def test_subtaction(self):
		self.assertEqual(self.calculator.subtract(10, 4), 6)
		
if __name__ == '__main__':
	unittest.main()
```

- We defined a `Calculator` class with `add()` and `substract()` methods.
- We created a `TestCalculator` class with tests for the `Calculator` class
- The `setUp` method initializes a `Calculator` instance (`self.calculator`) begore each test method is executed
- The `tearDown` method cleans up resources after each test method finishes.
- Each test method sets up the necessary conditions, performs the operation, and the checks the result using assertions like `self.assertEqual()`





