# Operators

Let's use them with arithmetic operators to calculate things!

Python has the following arithmetic operators

- `+` Addition
- `-` Subtraction
- `*` Multiplication
- `-` Division

```py
  score = 0       # score is 0
  score = 4 + 3   # score is now 7
  score = 4 - 3   # score is now 1
  score = 4 * 3   # score is now 12
  score = 4 / 3   # score is now 1.3333

  print(score)    # Output: 1.3333
```

And take a look at this code that calculates a 20% tip by calculating the total and the multiplying by a gloat (decimal number):

```py
  pizza = 2.99
  coke = 0.99

  total = pizze + coke

  tip = total * 0.2

  print(tip) # Output: 0.796
```

Another way to write this is using parentheses to calculate the total and the tip in one line

```py
  tip = (pizza + coke) * 0.2
```

In Python, parentheses have the highest order of operations

## Modulo

Another operator that often trips people up is the modulo operator

The `%` modulo operator doesn't given you the result of a division - it gives you the *remainder*

```py
  score = 5 % 3   # score is 2
  score = 5 % 2   # score is now 1
  score = 5 % 1   # score is now 0
```

- 5 divided by 3 is 1, with a remainder of 2
- 5 divided by 2 is 2, with a remainder of 1
- 5 divided by 1 is 5, with a remainder of 0

## Exponents

Python can also perform exponentiation such as 2³ or 10².

In written math, we might see an exponent as a superscript number (like above), but typing superscripts isn't always easy on modern keyboards. Since exponentiation is super similar to multiplication, Python uses the notation `**`

So `2 ** 3` is 2³ and `10 ** 2` is 10².

```py
  score = 2 ** 2  # score is 4
  score = 2 ** 3  # score is now 8
  score = 2 ** 4  # score is now 16

  print(score)
```

## División entera

The symbol `//` (double slash) is an inter division operator. It differs form the standard `/` operator in two ways:

The resault lacks the reactions part; it is either absent (for intergers) or always equal to zero (flor loating-point numbers). This means the results are always rounded.

It adheres to the interger vd floating-point rule.

```py
  print(6 // 3)
  print(6 // 3.)
```

```py
  2
  2.0
```

As you can see, an *integer division* results in an integer. All other cases produce floating-point numbers.

```py
  print(6 // 4)
  print(6. // 4)
```

Imagine that `/` was used instead of `//`

Yes, it would be `1.5` is both cases.

What you get are two ones, one integer and one floating-point.

The result of integer division is always rounded down to the nearest lower integer value of the unrounded divicions result

This is very important: roundding always goes down.

## Remainder (Module)

The flollowing operator is quite peculiar because it doesn't have equivalente among traditional arithmetic operators.

Its graphical representations in Python is the `%` (percent) symbol, which can be a bit confusing

Think of it as a slash (division operator) accompanied by two small circles.

The result of the operation is the remainder of the integer division.

In other words. It's the value left over after dividing one value by another to produce an integer result.

Note: This operator is sometimes also called them odulo operator in other preogramming languages.

## Operadores y sus enlaces

An operator's binding determines the order in which operations fo operators with the same precedence are computed within the same expressión.

Most Python operators are left-bound, meaning that the expression is computed from left to right

```py
print(9 % 6 % 2)
```

There are two possibles ways to evaluate the expression:

- From left to rigth: first `9 % 6` equals 3, and then `3 % 2` equals `1`;
- From right to left: first `6 % 2` equals 0, and then `9 % 0` causes a fatal error.

```py
  print(9 % 6 % 2)
```

The result should be `1`. The operator has a left-side bind. But there is an interesting exceptin.

```py
  print(2 ** 2 ** 3)
```

The two possible outcomes are:

- `2 ** 2` → `4`; `4 ** 3` → `64`
- `2 ** 3` → `8`; `2 ** 8` → `256`

The result clearly shows that the exponentiation operator uses right-side binding.

### Example

```py
  print((2 ** 4), (2 * 4.), (2 * 4))

  # 16 8.0 8
```

```py
  print((-2 / 4), (2 / 4), (2 // 4), (-2 // 4))

  # -0.5, 0.5, 0, -1
```
  
```py
  print((2 % -4), (2 % 4), (2 ** 3 ** 2))

  # -2,  2,  521
```
