# Errors in Python

`First actual case of bug being found.`

The legend goes that on September 9th, 1947, a team of computer scientists at Havard university found a moth trapped in the Harvard Mark II computer's logbook. One of the team members was the computer science pioneer `Grace Hopper` and she reported the bug and wrote:

Some also argue that the term "bug", meaning technical error, dates back to 1878 with Thomas Edison

By this point in the journey, you may have encounteres an *error* or two when running the code.

Here are some common Python errors:

- `SyntaxError`: this occurs when invalid Python code is present

- `NameError`: this occurs when you're trying to use a variable without declaring it first.

- `TypeError`: this occurs when the data type you're using doesn't suit what you're trying to do.

During your coding adventure, you are destined to encounter many annoying lil' red errors, But what makes a programmer great isn't avoiding errors, but knowing how to face them head-on and resolve them.

## SyntaxError

One of the most common errors is the `SyntaxError`, which occurs when you try to run code that is not valid Python - such as a misspelled keyword, a missing colon `:`, or a missing closing prenthesis.

```python
  print(Hello, Word 

  # SyntaxError: invalid syntax
```

THe snippedt above will throw a `SyntaxError` when run because the `print()` function requires a closing parenthesis.

## NameError

Another error you'll often come across is the `NameError`, which occurs when you're trying to refer to a variable that hasn't yet been made - it could be because you misspelled a variale name or forgot to define the variable!

```python
  print(greetings)
  # NameError: name 'greetings' is no defined
```

The snippet above throws a `NameError` because we hadn't defined a `greetings` variable. We can fix this by defining the variable beforehand.

## TypeError

One more common error that we will look at is the `TypeError`. When working with variables of various data types (numbers, strings and booleans), you will likely com across this error.

```python
  message = 'The air quality is '
  print(message + 28)

  # TypeError: can only concatenate str (not "int") to str
```

The `message` variable is a string data type. If we try to add an integer number `28` to it, a `TypeError` will be thrown. This can be fixed with something like the buil-in `str()` function or with surrounding the number in quotes

```python
  message = 'The air quality is '
  print(message + str(28))
```
