# Imports

In Python, module are `.py` files containing Python code that can be imported inside another Python program. The Python standard library contains well over 2000 modules that we can use.

We can use the `randint()` function from a module called `random` to generate a reandom number from a range.

But first, let's import this module so we can use its functions.

```python
  import random
```

Next, we'll create a variable to store the randomly generated value. Declare a variable called `num`, and assign it to the function call:

```python
  num = random.randint(1, 9)
```

This will generate a random number between 1 and 9 (inclusive of both)

Together, the code will look like:

```python
  import random

  num = random.randint(1, 9)

  print(num)
```

Here's another method `.choices()`

```python
import random
dice = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]

print(random.choice(dice))
```

The `.choice()` method will randomly select a single item by default

We can also set how many items are randomly chosen with the `k` parameter:

```python
import random
dice = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]

print(random.choices(dice, k=3))
```

This will return a new list of three items randomly selected from `dice`. Every time you run it, the output should be different

**Note**: The `k` paramter only sets the *length* of the returned list from `.choices()`. This means that a list item may be included in the returned list more than once.

## Example

The magic 8 ball is popular office toy and children's toy invented in the 1940s for fortune-telling and advice seeking.

It's an oversized 8 ball with same of the following answers:

Program that can respond to any Yes or No questions with a different answer each time it executes.

```python
import random

question = str(input("Question: "))

if question == 'yes':
  num = random.randint(1, 3)

  if (num == 1):
    print('Yes - definitely')
  elif (num == 2):
    print('It is decidedly so.')
  elif (num == 3):
    print('Without a doubt')

elif question == 'not': 
  num = random.randint(1, 5)
  
  if (num == 1):
    print('Respuesta vaga, inténtalo de nuevo.')
  elif(num == 2):
    print('Ask again later.')
  elif(num == 3):
    print('Better not tell you now')
  elif(num == 4):
    print('My sources say no')
  elif(num == 5):
    print('Outlook not so good')

else:
  print('Very doubtful')

```
