# Filesystem

Essentially, your computer is a *filesystem* made of folders and files:

In the context of the command line, we refer to folders as **directories**

## Print Working Directory: pwd

The filesystem of your computer can be intimidating at first, and it's easy to get lost.

The *working directoy* is wherever you are currently you are currently at within the filesystem.

We can show this with the `pwd` command, which stands from **print working directory**

```bash
  $pwd
  /Users/dwight-schrute
```

This means that the working directory we are currently on is `/Users/dwight-schrute`

## Change Directory: cd

So we can open the command line as well as view the current directory in our computer's filesystem.

But how do we actually navigate the filesystem via the command line? We do this with the `cd` "Change directory" command!

```bash
  $cd
```

The `directory-name` is the directory we want to change into (making this the new current directory)

Let's say we're currently on the following working directory:

```bash
  $pwd
```

Your username is also a directory that contains more directories, including one for you computer's desktop

We can move to that `Desktop` directory with the `cd` command:

```bash
  $cd Desktop
  $pwd

  /Users/dwight-schrute/Desktop
```

If you try to change into a non-existent directory, you'll get an error:

```bash
  $cd something
  something: No such file or directory
```

## List Content: ls

But wait, how do you always know what you're typing next to `cd` is a valid directory names? There's a command to list our all sudirectories under our current directoy

We can use the `ls` list command to sho all directories and files that exist in your current working directory. Assuming we're on the **dwight-schrute** directory:

```bash
  $ls
    Desktop
    Documents
    Images
    script.js
    dundie-awards.txt
```

Running the `ls` command shows there are three subdirectories

- Desktop
- Documents
- Images

## Traversing the Filesystem

Using the `..` double period moves us back in our filesystem.

`Note:` When moving forward in the filesystem, we go to a "child" directory. When moving backward, we go up to a "parent" directory

Even so, one drectory at a time can get tiring really quickly. In this case, we use a forward slash `/` to move up or down multiple directories in a sigle command:

```bash
  $pwd
  /Users/dwight-schrute/schrute-farms/
  $cd ../..
  $pwd
  /Users/
```

## Viewing File Content

If we want to see what is inside of a file (like a text-based *.text* file or a Python *.py* file), we can do so with the `cat` command

```bash
  $pwd
  /Users/dwight-schrute/schrute-farms/
  $ls
  beets.text
  $cat beets.txt
  I have 100 beets!
```

The `cat` command will print all text-based content from a **file** to the command line.

`Note:` The `echo` command can also be used for viewing file content, but the `cat` command is more commonly used

## Clearing the command line

The `clear` command will clear everthing from view on the command line.

`Note:` This command does not rest your current working directory in the filesystem. It just makes the command line visibly cleaner.

## Keyboard Shortcuts

As your cn imagine, the command line is mostly worked with a keyboard.

While you've already learned about and run a few awesome commands, there are some keyboard shortcuts you should try that do similar things.

### Command History

One of the most helpful shortcusts is ussing your keyboard's, keys to automaticaly bring up commands you'd previously written.

### Tab

Is also a keyboard shortcut for completing what you type on thye command line.

When typing on the command line, the `tab` key can be used for auto-completing the names of things such as:

- The names of commands
- The names of existing files or directories.